The Joe Rogan experience. Now,
what is the timeline in terms of like,
does space X have a multiple stage timeline,
like a timeline for incorporating the dragon crew and then a timeline for
the star hopper and then a timeline for additional projects in the future?
Like as, is he thinking along these lines of like, of,
of like charted out progress?
Oh yeah. Yeah. He's uh, in fact he,
he measures pretty much every major decision by whether or not it brings the day
when we have a self-sustainable colony on Mars sooner or later,
that's the prison by which he makes every, like every single decision he makes,
he makes it through that prison. Jesus. Yeah.
So he's got an idea and he'll keep pushing and, and uh, you know,
he gives us aggressive timelines that we have to work to,
and we work really hard to try to try to meet him.
It's hard when you're doing stuff that this does this complicated to predict
exactly how long it's going to take. So, you know,
we end up often falling a little bit behind, but we do our best. That's what.
The case though, with everything that's that crazy, right? Yeah. I mean, no,
I mean, especially with Elan, he's never writing his predictions.
All's wacky inventions. They're always a little off, you know.
But, but, but he's so driven, you know, and he's such a smart guy and, um,
and he's, he's, he's the most,
he's really the most driven person I think I've ever met. Uh,
I'll give you a story that, that kind of illustrate it once. Um,
when I first got hired by space X,
we did an interview with 60 minutes and they interviewed, uh, Elan and,
and myself, uh, and Scott Pelley was, uh,
an anchor. He talked to us and he said to me,
why did you leave NASA and come work for space X.
She had like the best gig in a world, you know, going up on rockets and stuff.
Why would you do that? And, um, I said, well,
if you can go back in time and you were a young engineer and you had the
opportunity to like get in on the ground floor and work with Howard Hughes,
when he was like doing all the crazy stuff he was doing. And in his day,
when do you want to be a part of that?
It's got Pelley looked at me like with a deer in the headlights look,
cause I don't think he knew what I was talking about, but I was like that's.
But then I realized, as soon as I said that, like, oh my God,
I just made a terrible strategic error.
I compared my boss to Howard Hughes, you know,
things didn't end up that well for Howard, you know, he went crazy, right.
He went kind of crazy, became washed his hands too much. And germaphobe.
He was peeing in jars and like his fingernails grew out like.
Yeah.
And I was like, God, no, I really kind of stepped in it. Right.
You don't want to say that about the boss. Right. So, um, it took a while.
It was like months later we were driving in a rental car,
just the two of us in Florida.
We were had a mini at NASA and we're driving back to the airport to get on his
airplane and come back to LA and I'm driving the car,
he's sitting in the passenger seat and I said, Hey boss, uh,
remember that time we're on. And I compared to the Howard Hughes, you know,
I just want you to know, I was comparing you to the young dashing,
starlet, dating Howard Hughes,
not the old decrepit ping and jars fingernail guy.
It's all about the timeline.
Yeah. And I as, and, and all I got back with silence
and now I'm really scared. Right. And, uh,
I'm sitting there like waiting for him to say something in any land will do
this. And I, he did this on your show, right. He kinda like, if you,
if you pose to him a serious question, he'll consider it.
And he'll kind of go into this almost like a trance they'll stare off into space
and you can see the wheels turning. He is like focusing all of his intellect,
which is considerable on his one question and that's what was happening.
So I waited and then he turned back to me. He said, you know, Garrett,
I don't think it's an apt comparison. I said, oh, okay. Uh,
could good. Uh, why, I'm curious, why do you think that? And he said, well,
none at Howard, none of Howard's designs,
as brilliant as they were ended up really changing the way we live our lives.
So we don't send, like he made the disperse goose,
which is an incredible airplane, was all wood, you know,
trying to solve the problem during the war of rationing.
So we don't send our, our,
our goods across the oceans and giant wooden airplanes. We don't do that. Um,
the H one racer was a beautiful airplane, but it was a one-off.
It never really led to a large designs that changed the way people lived their
lives. So that was his objection was not that like,
I was comparing them to some creep, but that he wants,
it's really important to him to have the legacy of drastically
impacting the way all of us live our lives.
So kind of the way Steve jobs did or, or others that,
that really moved the ball down field for humanity. That's what.
He's such an unusual human. I mean, there's very,
very few people that you could make any kind of rational comparison to other
than maybe Nikola Tesla, will you really stop and think what he's done? Yeah.
And the fact that he does them all simultaneously that he's involved in the
boring project, he's involved in Tesla and space X,
all simultaneously and Tesla, home, solar,
all the solar panels in the making solar tiles for roofs.
And he's doing so many different things at the same time. It it's,
it's almost impossible. Like it, I don't understand how he does it.
Yeah. I, I seen him do it and I still don't understand it. You know, it's like,
I, I kind of burned myself out just trying to do one of those things.
He does all of them. And, um, and he does have all the advantages of wealth,
which helps, you know, so like,
he'll have meetings with us and he'll walk out of his last meeting and he'll
walk across the street to Hawthorne airport, hop on his jet.
And he's at Palo Alto in a couple hours.
And he could be first thing in the morning at Tesla,
and he's got a staff to help some and you know, he's got those advantages. Um,
but he, he, uh, that isn't in any way,
describe what, or that doesn't explain why he's able to do what he does.
I don't know how he does it to be honest.
Well, he's the next stage of humanity. Yeah. If people are evolving,
he's, he's like looking at us from the next spot and he's like, Hey guys,
I've got some ideas.
He's just an idea factory. And, and, um, he, his, uh,
uh, w what's really remarkable to me is, is, is the breadth of his knowledge.
I mean, I've met a lot of super, super smart people, but they're usually super,
super smart on one thing.
And he's able to have conversations with our top engineers about the software
and the know, the most arcane aspects of that.
And then he'll turn to our manufacturing engineers and,
and have discussions about some really esoteric welding process for
some crazy alloy. And,
and he'll just go back and forth and his ability to do that across all the
different technologies that go into rockets and cars and everything
else he does. That's what really impresses me. Well, also.
Lack of burnout, cause he's been doing it at this incredible rate,
16 hours a day for how long.
His whole life. I think that's nuts.
I know. And he's still hungry for it.
And he is still taking on these new projects and new ideas. And.
Yeah. You know, at that pay seven, seven years was about as like,
as much as I could take. I was like, I need to do.
Yeah. I just don't. I, you know, I mean, I'm very happy, exists, you know? Yeah.
But it's very confusing to me. I just feel so stupid when I'm around him.
You know, I, the conversations I've had with him, like, God, I'm dumb.
Nah, you gotta do what you gotta deal with what you got.
I wouldn't go that far.
So his, uh, his ultimate goal is to,
uh, create some sort of a colony on Mars,
but he believes that this technology will continue to expand to the point where
we will be leaving our source system.
We will be making human trips into other solar
systems into actual deep space.
Yeah. I mean, certainly hopefully that's, you know, at some point,
if we're going to survive, you take the really long view. You know,
the solar system is not going to last forever. Right.
It's going to last plenty long. If my kids are listening at home, don't worry.
Freaking out right now. Oh, no daddy said we're going to die.
No, we got plenty of time.
Couple of billion years, kids relax, not in our life.
Um, they're so funny, but, uh, but eventually, uh,
we're going to have to find a new home if we're going to last forever.
And we all hope that we last forever as a species, right. So, um,
at least most of us do. So, uh, eventually we got to get there,
but we got plenty of time in, in a, in a short term.
New important thing is at least getting out.
So not in just one place in the solar system because this, you know,
something bad could happen to this planet and we've got no backup.
Right. Uh, particularly if there is a natural situation, supervolcano,
supervolcano.
Um, or, you know,
we're doing a pretty good job at trashing this place all on her own. Yes.
We don't really need an astroid to hit us.
Uh we're we're kinda going down that road of,
of making displacement uninhabitable.
Well, what we need is someone like Elan who concentrates on the solutions.
I mean, he's already obviously got a full plate, many full plates,
but someone like him to concentrate on solutions to some of the environmental
problems that we've created for ourselves here.
Well, that's really that's. That was the thought behind Tesla. I mean, so,
so Tesla's kind of like plan a, save this planet in space.
X is kind of plan B uh, if you look at it that way.
It's just so weird to have a guy like that amongst us.
You know, especially having him as your boss, it was really.
Weird. Do you, have you talked to him at all about simulation theory?
We never, the thing is when every time I talked to him,
we focused on and this is what he does, you know,
he focuses on the thing that we are working on. Um, so it just,
that's one of the ways he does his time management.
That's one of the ways he is able to do all these things is like he doesn't sit
around and, and, and, and, and BS with you about like,
what's going on with, um, was a neuro link,
the company where he's making the chips that go into.
I forgot about that.
That's the other thing he does that one changing the way humans interface with.
He never said to me like, Garrett,
what do you think about having a chip in your head that they never,
he doesn't do that.
He talks to the people who really know about chips and PE and putting chips in
people's head. He talks to them about it.
You're going to sign up for that. No,
your face
expression you made. You're like, no.
My website got hacked and it freaked me out.
Well, they they're going to put wires in your head. Right.
That's the idea behind it. That's the idea Christ.
It's probably going to be inevitable. It, once it happens, I mean,
I don't want to be an early adopter,
but once it does happen and it really does remarkably
increase your, your ability to interface with data, because that's the idea,
right? Instead it ramps up the bandwidth in which people can access ideas and
information, and it's going to change the way we interface.
Yeah. I mean, I could see it being kind of an extreme have,
and have not situation. Like you think about how far behind you are today,
how left behind you are, if you have no internet access. Right.
And then this will be kind of, this could be like another level of that. Yeah.
I'm worried. I'm worried about that.
Yeah. I got other things that keep me up at night. I got.
Yeah.
I mean, what is it going to crazy nine-year-old and.
Real real-world problems.